---
id: 2026-AU-04
name: Motoried Rollers
title: Motoried Rollers
ages:
  6-8: --
  8-10: --
  10-12: --
  12-14: --
  14-16: --
  16-19: hard
answer_type: multiple choice
categories:
  - algorithms and programming
contributors:
  - Chris Wetherell, chris.wetherell@amt.edu.au, Australia (author, graphics)
  - Kris Coolsaet, kris.coolsaet@ugent.be, Belgium (contributor)
  - Graeme Buckie, graeme.buckie@amt.edu.au, Australia (contributor)
  - Esraa Almajhad, e.majhad@gmail.com, Saudi Arabia (contributor)

support_files:
  - graphics/*.svg by Chris Wetherell

equivalent_tasks: --
settings:
  default_image_scale: 1
---
[body]:graphics/2026-AU-04_RollerArray.svg
[opt1]:graphics/2026-AU-04_Align.svg
[opt2]:graphics/2026-AU-04_No_Align.svg
[explain]:graphics/2026-AU-04_RollerArray_Answer.svg

## Body

A ball is sent through an array of identical motorised rollers. The rollers slowly rotate in the same direction at the same steady rate. There is a switch that determines whether the rollers are all simultaneously rotating either clockwise or anticlockwise.

:::center
:-- | :---
![opt1] | ![opt2]
:::

Each roller has a slot into which a ball can fit perfectly. When the slots of adjacent rollers line up with each other, the ball will drop from the higher roller into the lower one. (As in the left picture below.) In the configuration on the right, the gaps will never align (given that the rollers all move in the same direction) and the ball will remain in the top roller. 
     
Plugs are placed between the rollers to ensure the ball can never drop into the gap between rollers or out of the array. 

A set of rollers is set up as below, with buckets placed to catch the ball.

![body]

## Question/Challenge - for the brochures

How many of the buckets could the ball eventually reach?

## Question/Challenge - for the online challenge

How many of the buckets could the ball eventually reach?

## Interactivity instruction - for the online challenge
--

## Answer Options/Interactivity Description

A) 1
B) 2
C) 3
D) 4


## Answer Explanation

The answer is C) 3

The answer is buckets 4, 5 and 6, as shown in the diagram below which highlights the potential paths.

![explain]

To identify the possible buckets, we can take a methodical approach, testing the potential alignment of the slots on the rollers.

For example, we can identify that if the top roller is rotated clockwise by 1/3, the rotation of the roller to the bottom right of it by the same amount in the same direction will align the slots, making it a valid transition for the ball. If we then check whether the top roller’s slot will align with the slot on the bottom left roller, we can see that if we rotate the top roller 1/3 counterclockwise, the slot on the bottom left roller will be on the opposite side of the roller after the same rotation. Thus, the ball can never be transferred from the top roller to the bottom left and we can eliminate it from the tree, which also eliminates the furthest left bucket as an option.

From this assessment, it can be observed that two rollers will align only if the position of the slot on one roller is offset by 180 degrees from the slot on the other roller.

The algorithm works as follows:
- Start from the top roller. 
- Examine all adjacent rollers. 
- Check whether the 180-degree-alignment condition is satisfied. 
- If the condition is satisfied, add the destination roller to the exploration queue. 
- Repeat the process for all reachable rollers. 
- Whenever a bucket is reached, record it as a possible destination.

This process can then be repeated for each subsequent roller to determine its possible destination roller

## This is Informatics

The system of arrows used in the last picture is known in computer science as a directed acyclic graph, often shortened to DAG.

Directed means that the arrows point in one direction only — downwards, in this case. Acyclic means that no matter which path you follow along the arrows, you will always move downward and eventually reach the bottom; you can never return to an earlier point (there are no cyclics). A graph is a way of drawing connections between things, showing how they are related to one another — whether or not there is an arrow directly linking two items.

DAGs have many applications in computer science. For example, DAGs are used to plan tasks where some steps must be completed before others can begin, such as building software, processing data, or running calculations. They help computers (and people) understand what can happen in parallel and what must wait, making complex systems easier to organize, explain, and manage.

Once a proper DAG has been built, we determine all reachable buckets by following a graph-traversal algorithm, which will systematically explores all possible paths. For instance, the one used in the answer explanation is known as breadth-first search.

## This is Computational Thinking

Algorithms – Students need to interpret and implement the algorithm that changes the state of the system, to try and work the ball through the system. Further, developing a methodical approach to assessing the system, and logically test each remaining option, eliminating options that are not feasible.

Decomposition – Students can work through each level one at a time to eliminate paths that cannot be reached. For example, since the roller on the left of the starting roller can never be reached, we can safely eliminate the only path to the first bucket. Similarly, since the roller directly beneath the starting roller can never be reached, we can then eliminate bucket 2 as well.

Evaluation – Students could work backwards through the system to determine the possible paths and eliminate options that will not be feasible

## Informatics Keywords and Websites


## Computational Thinking Keywords and Websites


## Wording and Phrases


## Comments

