---
id: 2026-DE-05
name: Marble Music
title: Marble Music
ages:
  6-8: --
  8-10: --
  10-12: --
  12-14: hard
  14-16: medium
  16-19: easy
answer_type: multiple choice
categories:
  - algorithms and programming
contributors:
  - Nils Böhnke, nils-boehnke@t-online.de, Germany (graphics, author)
  - Dirk Schmerenbeck, schmerenbeck@uni-trier.de, Germany (contributor)

support_files:
  - graphics/*.svg by Nils Böhnke

equivalent_tasks: --
settings:
  default_image_scale: 0.40
---
[taskbody]:graphics/2026-DE-05-taskbody.svg
[melodies]:graphics/2026-DE-05-melodies.svg
[melA]:graphics/2026-DE-05-A.svg "A (60px)"
[melB]:graphics/2026-DE-05-B.svg "B (60px)"
[melC]:graphics/2026-DE-05-C.svg "C (60px)"
[melD]:graphics/2026-DE-05-D.svg "D (60px)"
[melE]:graphics/2026-DE-05-E.svg "E (60px)"
[melF]:graphics/2026-DE-05-F.svg "F (60px)"
[optA]:graphics/2026-DE-05-optionA.svg
[optB]:graphics/2026-DE-05-optionB.svg
[optC]:graphics/2026-DE-05-optionC.svg
[optD]:graphics/2026-DE-05-optionD.svg

## Body

Marta has a musical toy with six bells A, B, C, D, E, and F that make different sounds when hit by a marble. The bells are arranged into a pyramid in some order. One example ordering is shown below.

![taskbody]

Marta drops a single marble onto the top bell. After hitting the bell, the marble rolls randomly left or right and drops onto the bell below, again rolls randomly left or right and drops onto the bell below, and then drops onto the ground. The marble can take different paths, resulting in different melodies.

With the example ordering shown above, the toy can play the four melodies shown below

![melodies]

Marta likes melodies that include ![melA], ![melC] and ![melE]  in any order.
Marta likes melodies that include ![melE] and ![melB] in any order.
Marta likes the melody ![melC] ![melF] ![melD].

Marta does not like melodies that include ![melF] and ![melB] in any order.
Marta does not like the melody ![melB] ![melA] ![melD].

## Question/Challenge - for the brochures

Three rows are missing. Which of the following can be the second missing row?

## Question/Challenge - for the online challenge

Three rows are missing. Which of the following can be the second missing row?

## Interactivity instruction - for the online challenge
--

## Answer Options/Interactivity Description

A. ![optA]  B. ![optB]

C. ![optC]  D. ![optD]


## Answer Explanation

D is the correct answer.


## This is Informatics



## This is Computational Thinking



## Informatics Keywords and Websites


## Computational Thinking Keywords and Websites


## Wording and Phrases

## Comments
