---
id: 2026-JP-02
name: Watering Drone
title: Watering Drone
ages:
  6-8: --
  8-10: --
  10-12: --
  12-14: hard
  14-16: medium
  16-19: easy
answer_type: multiple choice
categories:
  - algorithms and programming
  - data structures and representations
contributors:
  - Itsuki Shimada, a8124104@gsuite.si.aoyama.ac.jp, Japan (author, graphics)
  - Yoshiaki Matsuzawa, matsuzawa@si.aoyama.ac.jp, Japan (author, graphics)
  - Mattia Monga, mattia.monga@unimi.it, Italy (contributor)

support_files:
  - graphics/*.svg by Itsuki Shimada, Yoshiaki Matsuzawa

equivalent_tasks: --
settings:
  default_image_scale: 0.18
---
[drone]:graphics/drone.svg
[wilt]:graphics/flower_wilted.svg
[bloom]:graphics/flower_bloomed.svg


## Body

Dr. Beaver tried to develop a drone that automatically waters wilted flowers to make them bloom. She is not entirely sure that it works perfectly.

:--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |:--- 
![drone] | | | | | |
 | ![wilt] | ![bloom] | ![bloom] | ![wilt] | ![bloom] 


Dr. Beaver programmed the drone as follows. When the drone starts above the leftmost flower box, it repeats the following instructions in order until it stops:
- Check the box directly below. If there is a wilted flower in it, water it. Otherwise, move to the box on the right.
- If the drone is now no longer over a flower box, stop.
- Move to the flower box on the right.

:--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |:--- 
| | | | | |![drone] 
![bloom] | ![bloom] | ![bloom] | ![bloom] | ![bloom] | 


Dr. Beaver suspects that the drone sometimes fails to water all the flowers.


## Question/Challenge - for the brochures

Which of the following flower beds A to D will fail to be watered properly?

## Question/Challenge - for the online challenge

Which of the following flower beds A to D will fail to be watered properly?

## Interactivity instruction - for the online challenge
--

## Answer Options/Interactivity Description

A) ![wilt]  ![bloom]  ![bloom]  ![wilt]  ![bloom]
B) ![bloom]  ![bloom]  ![wilt] ![wilt] ![bloom]
C) ![wilt]  ![bloom]  ![wilt] ![wilt] ![bloom]
D) ![wilt]  ![wilt] ![bloom] ![bloom] ![wilt] 


## Answer Explanation

The correct answer is C.

This drone has a problem. In instruction 1, when above a "bloomed flower," it "moves right." Then, in instruction 3, it also "moves right." This means the drone may move two cells to the right when above a bloomed flower.

Let's trace the drone's movement for choice C:

- 1st cell (wilted) → water → move right
- 2nd cell (bloomed) → move right → move right again (2 cells!)
- 4th cell (wilted) → water → move right
- 5th cell (bloomed) → move right → stop

The 3rd wilted flower is skipped, and watering fails.

In choices A, B, and D, all wilted flowers can be watered.

## This is Informatics

The drone in this task operates according to an algorithm. An algorithm is a sequence of instructions arranged in order to solve a task. Computers and robots operate according to algorithms created by humans.

However, if there is a mistake (bug) in the algorithm, it may not work as expected. Finding and fixing such bugs is called debugging. The drone's algorithm in this task had a bug that causes it to skip one cell under certain conditions.

Programmers test with various input patterns to check if their algorithms have bugs. Such an input pattern used to reveal a bug is called a test case. In this task, finding which flower bed pattern causes the bug is exactly this kind of testing.

## This is Computational Thinking

To solve this task, you need the ability to trace. Tracing means following each step of an algorithm in order to see what happens.

The concept of debugging is also important. Debugging means finding and fixing mistakes (bugs) in a program. In this task, you needed to find what kind of input causes the bug to occur.

## Informatics Keywords and Websites


## Computational Thinking Keywords and Websites


## Wording and Phrases

## Comments
