---
id: 2026-CA-02
name: 3D Printing
title: 3D Printing
ages:
  6-8: --
  8-10: --
  10-12: --
  12-14: hard
  14-16: medium
  16-19: easy
answer_type: multiple choice
categories:
  - algorithms and programming
contributors:
  - Christine Vender, christine.vender@uwaterloo.ca, Canada (graphics, author)
  - Sirasit Lochanachit, sirasit@it.kmitl.ac.th, Thailand (contributor)
  -  Jiří Vaníček, vanicek@pf.jcu.cz, Czech Republic (contributor)
support_files:
  - graphics/*.svg by Christine Vender

equivalent_tasks: --
settings:
  default_image_scale: 1
---
[taskbody]:graphics/2026-CA-02-body.svg
[sol1]:graphics/2026-CA-02-Sol1.svg
[sol2]:graphics/2026-CA-02-Sol2.svg
[sol3]:graphics/2026-CA-02-Sol3.svg
[sol4]:graphics/2026-CA-02-Sol4.svg

## Body

A town library has two 3D printers that are available for people to use when they are in the library. If a person arrives and a printer is available, he or she starts their print job immediately. Otherwise that person must wait until a printer becomes available. If more than one person is waiting, when a printer becomes available, the next person is chosen randomly by the librarian.

![taskbody]

One day 6 people wanted to use the 3D printers. Their arrival time and the time it will take to complete their print job is shown in the table.

:----- | :----- | :-----
Person |	Arrival Time |	Length of Print Job
Abby	| 8:00 am	  | 5 hours
Bojan	| 10:00 am	| 3 hours
Chloe	| 12:00 pm	| 2 hours
Dipika|	1:00 pm	  | 4 hours
Edi	  | 2:00 pm	  | 1 hour
Foster|	2:00 pm	  | 6 hours

## Question/Challenge - for the brochures

What is the earliest possible time that the last print job will finish?

## Question/Challenge - for the online challenge

What is the earliest possible time that the last print job will finish?

## Interactivity instruction - for the online challenge
--

## Answer Options/Interactivity Description

A) 8:00 pm
B) 9:00 pm
C) 10:00 pm
D) 11:00 pm


## Answer Explanation

The correct answer is (B) 9:00 pm.

First we will call the printers Printer A and Printer B. When Abby arrives at 8:00 am the printers are both free so she begins printing immediately. Suppose she uses Printer A. Her print job will finish at 1:00 pm. When Bojan arrives at 10:00 am Printer B is free so he begins printing immediately. His print job will also finish at 1:00 pm. These print jobs are shown in the following diagram.

![sol1]

When Chloe arrives at 12:00 pm both printers are in use so she must wait for one to become available. When Dipika arrives at 1:00 pm both printers have just become available. Since there are only two people waiting, they can both start their print jobs immediately. Suppose Chloe starts her print job on Printer A and Dipika starts her print job on Printer B. Chloe's print job will finish at 3:00 pm and Dipika's print job will finish at 5:00 pm. The updated diagram is shown.

![sol2]

When Edi and Foster arrive at 2:00 pm, both printers are in use so they must wait for one to become available. At 3:00 pm, Chloe's print job finishes so Printer A is available. Either Edi or Foster could start their print job, but since we want to know the earliest possible time that the last print job will finish, and these are the last two people, the person with the longer print job should go first. Thus, Foster starts his print job on Printer A. His print job will finish at 9:00 pm. The updated diagram is shown.

![sol3]

At 5:00 pm, Dipika's print job finishes so Printer B is available. Edi starts his print job and it will finish at 6:00 pm. The updated diagram is shown.

![sol4]

Thus, Foster's print job is the last to finish at 9:00 pm.

Note that 3:00 pm was the only time when we had to make a choice about who should start their print job next. If instead we had chosen Edi to start his print job on Printer A, then his print job would finish at 4:00 pm. Then since Printer B is still in use, Foster would start his print job on Printer A, and it would finish at 10:00 pm. This is later than the finish time we already found. Therefore, the earliest possible time that the last print job will finish is at 9:00 pm.

## This is Informatics

This task is an example of parallel computing. Parallel computing is a method that breaks tasks into smaller parts and then completes the smaller parts simultaneously on multiple processors. In this situation, the task is all the print jobs for the day, and the two 3D printers act as processors because they can execute different print jobs at the same time. Parallel computing increases efficiency since multiple operations run at the same time.

This problem asks to minimize the makespan, which is the time elapsed from the start of the first task to the completion of the last task in a project. We can minimize the makespan through the use of good scheduling, which is deciding how and when tasks are assigned. If scheduling is done poorly, jobs can take longer to complete tasks and resources can end up being wasted. Thus, good scheduling is important to maximize efficiency.

## This is Computational Thinking

This task requires evaluation as students must create an optimal schedule to complete all print jobs. They can use a timeline to create a representation of the problem, which is an important problem-solving skill. The main skill this task requires is data analysis and representation. Using a timeline, which represents events over time, we can find the solution. This way of representing events that can occur at different times, have different durations, and overlap in time (i.e., happen simultaneously) is very useful in project organization (Gantt chart) or in the management of industrial processes.

## Informatics Keywords and Websites


## Computational Thinking Keywords and Websites


## Wording and Phrases

## Comments
