---
id: 2026-ID-04
name: Picky Eater
title: Picky Eater
ages:
  6-8: --
  8-10: easy
  10-12: --
  12-14: --
  14-16: --
  16-19: --
answer_type: multiple choice with images
categories:
  - algorithms and programming
  - data structures and representations
contributors:
  - Mariskha Tri Adithia, mariskha@unpar.ac.id, Indonesia (author)
  - Husnul Hakim, husnulhakim@unpar.ac.id, Indonesia (author, graphics)
  - Lidia Feklistova, lidia@ut.ee, Estonia (contributor)
  - Praphan Pavarangkoon, praphan@it.kmitl.ac.th, Thailand (contributor)
  - Vaida Masiulionyte Dagiene, vaida.masiulionyte-dagiene@mif.vu.lt, Lithuania (contributor)
support_files:
  - graphics/*.svg by Husnul Hakim

equivalent_tasks: --
settings:
  default_image_scale: 0.30
---
[cutlet]:graphics/cutlet.svg "cutlet (40px)"
[capsicum]:graphics/capsicum.svg "capsicum (60px)"
[spinach]:graphics/spinach.svg "spinach (70px)"
[decisiontree]:graphics/decisiontree-IN.svg
[broccoli]:graphics/broccoli.svg "broccoli (90px)"
[beans]:graphics/beans.svg "beans (40px)"
[cabbage]:graphics/cabbage.svg
[carrot]:graphics/carrot.svg 

## Body

Mika uses the following paths to decide what to eat for dinner. She
wants to end up with Soya Chop ![cutlet]. Mika starts with the carrot ![carrot]
at the top. At each food item, she asks herself, ”Should I eat this?”.
If the answer is Yes, she goes left. If the answer is no, she goes right.
She keeps going until she reaches the Soya Chop at the left bottom corner.

![decisiontree]

## Question/Challenge - for the brochures

Which food item besides the carrot does Mika have to eat to finally reach the Soya Chop?

## Question/Challenge - for the online challenge

Which food item besides the carrot does Mika have to eat to finally reach the Soya Chop?

## Interactivity instruction - for the online challenge
--

## Answer Options/Interactivity Description

:-----: | :-----: | :-----: | :-----: | :-----: 
![broccoli] | ![spinach] | ![cabbage] | ![beans] | ![capsicum]
A)      | B)      | C)      | D)      | E)


## Answer Explanation

The correct answer is B.

Look at the path and find the soya chop ![cutlet] on the left corner. To get there from the top, Mika must follow the "Yes" arrow at the carrot ![carrot] and then the "Yes" arrow at the spinach ![spinach]. So, the second vegetable she eats is spinach. 


## This is Informatics

Have you ever felt confused when making a choice? A tool called a Decision Tree can help. You used one in this task. Even though the picture in this task resembles a “tree”, it does not look much like a real tree in nature. In Informatics, trees are drawn with the root at the top. We move along the path lines by answering one question at a time until we reach the final answer. 

In this task, Mika used the decision tree to find the path to the food item she likes. Instead of asking, "What do I want?", she followed the rules: "If I say Yes to carrots, where does the path take me?" This logical step helped her reach the soya chop.

Computers use decision trees too! In Informatics, they help computers recognize objects in pictures and even recommend videos you might like. Just like Mika followed the path lines to get her dinner, computers follow decision trees to solve problems and give useful results.

## This is Computational Thinking

To solve this task, you used logical reasoning by following the strict rules of the decision tree: if Yes, go left; If No, go right. You also applied abstraction by ignoring the extra information in the picture, such as the food items Mika would not eat, and focusing only on the main goal: finding the food item she would like for dinner. By following the path step by step through each food item choice, from the start to the final result, you practiced algorithmic thinking. This task also used decomposition, because the big problem of finding Mika’s dinner was broken into smaller decisions at each step of the tree.

## Informatics Keywords and Websites


## Computational Thinking Keywords and Websites


## Wording and Phrases

## Comments
