---
id: 2026-IN-01b
name: Online Ad
title: Online Ad
ages:
  6-8: --
  8-10: --
  10-12: --
  12-14: --
  14-16: hard
  16-19: medium
answer_type: multiple choice
categories:
  - algorithms and programming
contributors:
  - Vipul Shah, vipul.x.shah@gmail.com, India (author)
  - James Atlas, james.atlas@canterbury.ac.nz, New Zealand (contributor, graphics)
  - Tom Naughton, tomn@cs.nuim.ie, Ireland (contributor)
support_files:
  - *.svg by James Atlas
equivalent_tasks: --
settings:
  default_image_scale: 0.25
---

[adv]:graphics/2026-IN-01b_Online_ad.svg


## Body

An online shop shows one advertisement each day on its webpage. There are three ads: Flash Sale, Super Saver and New Arrival. Each day the shop earns beaver coins from the ad shown. Over time, the online shop would like to earn as many beaver coins as possible.

![adv]

The shop keeps a score for each ad. The score shows how good the ad has been so far.

The shop follows these rules to decide which ad to show:

- At the beginning all scores are zero.
- For the first three days, the shop shows each ad once. 
- After an ad is shown on a day, its score is updated like this:

> The new score of the ad is the average of its previous score and today’s earnings. The scores for the other ads do not change.

- On every 3rd day after that (Days 6, 9, 12,…) the shop chooses the ad with the lowest score to explore alternatives.
- On all other days, the shop shows the ad with the highest score. 
- If two or more ads have the same score, the shop chooses Flash Sale over Super Saver over New Arrival, in that order.

So far

- Day 1: earning = 20 beaver coins
- Day 2: earning = 20 beaver coins
- Day 3: earning = 80 beaver coins 
- Day 4: earning = 20 beaver coins
- Day 5: earning = 20 beaver coins 


## Question/Challenge - for the brochures

Which ad will the system show on day 6?


## Question/Challenge - for the online challenge

Which ad will the system show on day 6?


## Interactivity instruction - for the online challenge
--


## Answer Options/Interactivity Description

A) Flash Sale
B) Super Saver
C) New Arrival
D) Cannot be decided


## Answer Explanation

Correct Answer A.

Let us track the scores step by step.

Start: All scores are zero

After Day 1 (Flash Sale is shown due to tiebreaker because all scores are 0 and it earns 20): Flash Sale’s score becomes the average of 0 and 20 = 10

After Day 2 (Super Saver is shown due to tiebreaker between the two unshown ads and it earns 20): Super Saver’s score becomes the average of 0 and 20 = 10

After Day 3 (New Arrival is shown because it is the last remaining unshown ad and it earns 80): New Arrival’s score becomes the average of 0 and 80= 40

Day 4 is not multiple of 3 so the shop chooses the ad with the highest score which is New Arrival.

After Day 4 (New Arrival earns 20): New Arrival’s score becomes the average of 40 and 20 = 30

Day 5 is also not a multiple of 3 so again the shop chooses the ad with the highest score which is New Arrival.

After Day 5 (New Arrival sale earns 20): New Arrival’s score becomes average of 30 and 20 = 25 

Final scores at the end of day 5: Flash Sale:10, Super Saver:10, New Arrival:25.

Day 6 is multiple of 3, so the shop selects the ad with the lowest score. The lowest score is 10, which is a tie between Flash Sale and Super Saver. Using the tie breaking rule, the system chooses Flash Sale. 


## This is Informatics

This task models a classic reinforcement learning setting called the multi-armed bandit (MAB). In a multi-armed bandit problem, an agent repeatedly chooses one action from a fixed set (the “arms”), and after each choice, it receives a reward from that option, but how good the reward will be is not known in advance. The objective is to maximize total reward over many choices, while balancing learning (trying options) and earning (using the best-known option). 

Concepts of exploration and exploitation are presented here. On normal days, the shop shows an ad that has rewarded the shop the most so far (exploitation). On special days (multiples of 3), the system selects the ad that has the worst reward so far (exploration). This is a trade off in decision making strategy – learning between searching for new possibilities versus maximizing returns. Balancing the two allows AI agents to maintain efficiency and stability.

## This is Computational Thinking

Algorithmic Thinking: 

This problem has an algorithm in itself which can be followed: 

choose ad → get reward → update score for ad → compare scores → choose ad.

This is a simple algorithm including sequence of commands and an (potentially infinite) loop. Thinking in these terms is called algorithmic thinking. 

Abstraction & Decomposition:

If this algorithm is analyzed and decomposed, for the purpose of solving this task it could be simplified to calculation of the value after each day since this is the only relevant question for this problem. In this way, the most relevant information is abstracted from the problem itself.


## Informatics Keywords and Websites


## Computational Thinking Keywords and Websites


## Wording and Phrases

## Comments
