---
id: 2026-CA-03
name: Secret Recipe
title: Secret Recipe
ages:
  6-8: --
  8-10: --
  10-12: hard
  12-14: medium
  14-16: easy
  16-19: --
answer_type: multiple choice
categories:
  - data structures and representations
contributors:
  - Christine Vender, christine.vender@uwaterloo.ca, Canada (graphics, author)
  - Linda Björk Bergsveinsdottir, linda@sky.is, Iceland (contributor)
support_files:
  - graphics/*.svg by Christine Vender

equivalent_tasks: --
settings:
  default_image_scale: 0.80
---
[body]:graphics/2026-CA-03-body.svg "body (450px)"
[sol]:graphics/2026-CA-03-sol.svg "sol (300px)"


## Body

Anu has six boxes. She hides her top secret cookie recipe in one of the boxes. In the remaining five boxes she places a key that opens one of the other boxes. The boxes and their keys are shown.

![body]

Anu then closes and locks all six boxes with a master key.

## Question/Challenge - for the brochures

Anu wants to share her recipe with her friend Suman. Which key(s) can Anu give Suman?

## Question/Challenge - for the online challenge

Anu wants to share her recipe with her friend Suman. Which key(s) can Anu give Suman?

## Interactivity instruction - for the online challenge
--

## Answer Options/Interactivity Description

A) Only the key to Box 1
B) Either the key to Box 1, 5, or 6
C) Any of the six keys
D) Either the key to Box 1, 3, or 6

## Answer Explanation

The correct answer is (D): Either the key to Box 1, 3, or 6.

From Box 2, we get the key for Box 4. From Box 4, we get the key for Box 5. From Box 5, we get the key for Box 2. Thus, we can open boxes 2, 4, and 5 in a circular order. Also note that none of these boxes leads to the secret recipe.

From Box 3, we get the key for Box 6. From Box 6, we get the key for Box 1, and in Box 1 is the secret recipe.

We can represent this information in a diagram by drawing an arrow from each box to the the box whose key it contains. The diagram then shows the sequence in which the boxes can be opened. Since Box 1 does not contain a key, there is no arrow out of 1 in our diagram.

![sol]

Therefore, since the secret recipe is in Box 1, either the key to Box 1, 3, or 6 will allow Suman to find the secret recipe. No other keys will lead to the secret recipe.

## This is Informatics

In this task, Boxes 3, 6, and 1 illustrate the data structure called a linked list. In a linked list, each element contains information about where the next element is stored, which is called a pointer. The last element in the list points to something that signifies we have reached the end of the list. In this case, that thing is the secret recipe.

Boxes 2, 4, and 5 represent a circular linked list. In a circular linked list, each element has a pointer to the next element, and the pointer of the last element in the list points to the first element, thereby forming a circle.

There are many applications of linked lists in everyday life. One such area is music playlists, because the songs on the playlist will be played in order every time. Setting the playlist to be "on repeat" turns it into a circular linked list because once all of the songs from the playlist have been played, the music would continue from the first song in the playlist. Another application of linked lists is a set of GPS directions, since each instruction points to the next logical instruction. If a turn is missed, the pointer would update accordingly to change the next instruction.

This task is also an example of an associative array or a dictionary which is an abstract data type that stores a collection of key/value pairs. In this task, the box number would be called the key, and the box that can be opened next would be called the value.

## This is Computational Thinking

This task requires algorithmic thinking as students must trace the path from one box to the next by using the picture to determine which key is in the box they have just opened. This tells them which box they can then open next.

## Informatics Keywords and Websites


## Computational Thinking Keywords and Websites


## Wording and Phrases

## Comments
