---
id: 2026-BR-02
name: Toys and Batteries
title: Toys and Batteries
ages:
  6-8: --
  8-10: medium
  10-12: easy
  12-14: --
  14-16: --
  16-19: --
answer_type: multiple choice
categories:
  - algorithms and programming
contributors:
  - Emily Cavalcanti, emily.cavalcanti@upmat.com.br, Brazil (author, graphics)
  - James Atlas, james.atlas@canterbury.ac.nz, New Zealand (contributor)
  - J.P. Pretti, jpretti@uwaterloo.ca, Canada (contributor)
  - Vaida Masiulionytė-Dagienė, vaida.masiulionyte-dagiene@mif.vu.lt, Lithuania (contributor)
support_files:
  - graphics/*.svg by Emily Cavalcanti
equivalent_tasks: --
settings:
  default_image_scale: 0.25
---
[toys]:graphics/2026-BR-02a.svg "toys (450px)"
[batteries]:graphics/2026-BR-02b.svg "batteries (450px)"
[solution1]:graphics/2026-BR-02_sol_1.svg
[solution2]:graphics/2026-BR-02_sol_2.svg

## Body

Milu has some toys that need batteries to work. The shapes of batteries needed for each toy are shown in the picture below.

![toys]

Milu's mother found some batteries at home that can be used in these toys. All of these batteries shown in the picture below can only be used once.

![batteries]

Milu wants to power as many toys as possible at the same time

## Question/Challenge - for the brochures

What is the greatest number of toys that can be powered at the same time using these batteries?


## Question/Challenge - for the online challenge

What is the greatest number of toys that can be powered at the same time using these batteries?


## Interactivity instruction - for the online challenge
--


## Answer Options/Interactivity Description

A) 1
B) 2
C) 3
D) 4


## Answer Explanation

The correct answer is (C).

It is not possible to power all four toys at the same time because it would require four long batteries, and we only have two.

Knowing this, we start by trying to use the two long batteries. One option is as shown:

![solution1]

Then, when we try to use the four remaining batteries, we see that it is possible to power three toys as shown:

![solution2]

This shows us it is possible to power three toys at the same time and so that must be the answer.

(Note that if we had used our two long batteries to power the car, we would only have been able to power a total of two toys. Also, it is not helpful to only use one long battery for the car.)

## This is Informatics

Each toy is powered only if matching shape batteries are used as needed for that toy. These are constraints that we must satisfy. Among the ways to satisfy these constraints, we want the way that powers as many toys as possible. We call this the optimal solution.

Many real-world situations involve trying to find optimal solutions to constraint satisfaction problems. You can imagine complex systems such as airport schedulers, factory assembly lines and balancing financial portfolios.

A computer scientist’s role in these real-world situations is often to find an optimization algorithm that finds an optimal solution satisfying the given constraints. For this task, we considered the maximum theoretical answer (powering four toys), determined it was not possible, and then found a way to use batteries in the next best possible scenario (powering three toys). It is somewhat unusual for this kind of approach to work in the real-world.

Another way to solve the task would be to consider all possible ways to use the batteries. This is called an exhaustive search. This tends to work more often in the real-world but can sometimes be too slow. When that happens, computer scientists go to their problem-solving tool-box in search of more sophisticated algorithms.

## This is Computational Thinking

This task develops decomposition, evaluation, and logical reasoning skills. Students can decompose the problem into the number of each battery shape available, the number of places the batteries can be used, and then decide how to place the available batteries to power the greatest number of toys possible. In doing so, they evaluate different ways to organize the available resources and the requirements of each toy solution. Developing this kind of reasoning with constraints is an important part of Computational Thinking, as solving problems often requires comparing possible solutions and selecting the most effective one that satisfies all constraints.

## Informatics Keywords and Websites

## Computational Thinking Keywords and Websites

## Wording and Phrases

## Comments
