---
id: 2026-HU-01a
name: Video Recommendation
title: Video Recommendation
ages:
  6-8: --
  8-10: --
  10-12: hard
  12-14: medium
  14-16: easy
  16-19: --
answer_type: multiple choice
categories:
  - algorithms and programming
contributors:
  - Zsuzsa Pluhár, pluharzs@ik.elte.hu, Hungary (author)
  - Maria Cepeda, marimar@aurovirtual.com, Mexico (contributor, graphics)
  - Bronius Skūpas, bronius@gmail.com, Lithuania (contributor)

support_files:
  - graphics/*.svg by Maria Cepeda

equivalent_tasks: --
settings:
  default_image_scale: 0.18
---
[eggs]:graphics/video1.svg
[pasta]:graphics/video2.svg
[burger]:graphics/video3.svg
[salad]:graphics/video5.svg
[hotdog]:graphics/video4.svg
[bread]:graphics/video6.svg


## Body

A video app uses a smart rule to suggest new videos:

If another person watched at least 2 of the same videos as you, the app suggests their other videos to you (if you have not seen them).

You have recently watched these three videos:

:---: | :---: | :---: 
![eggs] | ![pasta] | ![burger]

Here is what three other people watched:

:---: | :---: | :---: | :---:
Anu | ![pasta] | ![burger] | ![salad]
Bela | ![eggs] | ![bread] | ![burger]
Charu | ![pasta] | ![bread] | ![hotdog]

## Question/Challenge - for the brochures

According to the rule, which new videos will the app recommend to you?

## Question/Challenge - for the online challenge

According to the rule, which new videos will the app recommend to you?

## Interactivity instruction - for the online challenge
--

## Answer Options/Interactivity Description

A) ![bread] ![hotdog]
B) ![salad] ![bread]
C) ![salad] ![bread] ![hotdog] 
D) ![salad] ![hotdog]


## Answer Explanation

Correct answer is B.

The suggested videos would be ![salad] and ![bread].

Anu watched 2 videos that you also watched ![pasta] and ![burger]. She meets the rule! So, the app recommends her other video: ![salad]

Bela also watched 2 videos you watched ![eggs] and ![burger]. She meets the rule too! The app recommends: ![hotdog].

Charu only watched 1 video you watched ![pasta]. She doesn't meet the “at least 2” rule, so you don't get her videos.


## This is Informatics

This task shows how apps like Netflix, YouTube, or Spotify know what to suggest to you. This  is called collaborative filtering.

The computer looks for “similar persons” who like the same things as you. If they watched something you haven't seen yet, the app suggests it!

While this is great to find things you like, it can also trap you in a filter bubble. This means the app only shows you things you already know, and you might miss out on completely new and different ideas.

## This is Computational Thinking

1. Pattern Recognition: You must identify videos that are repeated between the user's viewing history and that of Anu, Bela and Charu. A video match.

2. Breaking it down (Decomposition): Instead of looking at all the people or users at the same time, you broke the big problem into smaller steps: checking Anu’s videos, then Bela’s,  and finally Charu.

3. Evaluation (Algorithmic Logic)
You used an IF-THEN rule: IF they have 2 matches, THEN I recommend the video. Students must apply a conditional statement (IF-THEN-ELSE) to each user. This involves rigorous evaluation of the data against a strict logical constraint, which is the heart of algorithmic decision-making.

## Informatics Keywords and Websites


## Computational Thinking Keywords and Websites


## Wording and Phrases

## Comments
