---
id: 2026-CH-11a
name: Muddy or Clear?
title: Muddy or Clear?
ages:
  6-8: --
  8-10: --
  10-12: hard
  12-14: medium
  14-16: easy
  16-19: --
answer_type: multiple choice
categories:
  - algorithms and programming
  - data structures and representations
contributors:
  - Susanne Thut, susanne.thut@informatik-biber.ch, Switzerland (author, graphics)
  - Masiar Babazadeh, masiar.babazadeh@supsi.ch, Switzerland (contributor)

support_files:
  - graphics/*.svg by Susanne Thut

equivalent_tasks: --
settings:
  default_image_scale: 0.12
---

[body1]:graphics/2026-CH-11_taskbody1.svg
[turn1]:graphics/2026-CH-11_firstturn.svg
[turn2]:graphics/2026-CH-11_taskbody2.svg
[turn3]:graphics/2026-CH-11_taskbody3.svg
[optA]:graphics/2026-CH-11_answerFEA.svg
[optB]:graphics/2026-CH-11_answerFEB.svg
[optC]:graphics/2026-CH-11_answerFEC.svg
[optD]:graphics/2026-CH-11_answerEB.svg

## Body

The beavers play a game with clear and muddy water. First they build a grid like this using posts and removable walls:

![body1]

After, they start playing, they always follow these rules:
- Luca pours clear water into one randomly chosen field.
- Mora pours muddy water in any other field.
- Luca and Mora then take turns removing one wall at a time. Luca starts first. When a wall is removed, the player’s water flows into a neighboring field.  
- A wall may not be removed if:
  - it is an outer wall of the playing area;
  - there is no water on both sides;
  - it has muddy water on one side and clear water on the other side.
  - The player who cannot remove the wall loses the game.

Here an example of first 3 turns:

:---: | :---: | :---: | :---:
![turn1] | ![turn2] | ![turn3] | ...
Luca | Mora | Luca | Mora


## Question/Challenge - for the brochures

Only one of these states is possible in the game. Which one?


## Question/Challenge - for the online challenge

Only one of these states is possible in the game. Which one?


## Interactivity instruction - for the online challenge


## Answer Options/Interactivity Description
A) ![optA] B) ![optB] C) ![optC] D) ![optD]

## Answer Explanation

D is the correct option. 

Since Luca goes first, there can not be more fields flooded with muddy water than clear water.

Answer A) is wrong because they have more fields with muddy water than clear water.

Answer B) is wrong because a wall has to be removed so that the water flows into the neighbouring field. Fields that are not directly adjacent cannot be flooded.

Answer C) is wrong because they have more fields with muddy water than clear water.

Answer D) is correct. Luca has made her move and Mora can make no more moves and the game ends. 


## This is Informatics

In this task, you need to find conditions that never change during the game. Since these conditions are true before and after each move, they will also be true when the game ends! Before Luca moves there is an equal amount of clear water and muddy water on the board. After Luca moves  there is one extra cell of clear water compared to the muddy water. All the clear water cells must touch each other in one big group, and all the muddy water cells must do the same. The conditions that never change during the game are called invariants.

In programming, an invariant is a condition or constraint that remains consistently true throughout the execution of a specific section of code. For example, a condition that is true before and after every iteration of a loop is called a loop invariant.  It’s the same thing for this game. 

If we follow certain rules, the resulting outcome will make those conditions visible. Conversely, to achieve a specific outcome, we must clearly define the rules and the sequence of actions (algorithm). By comparing our goal with what actually happened, we can find the errors in our logic.

In this task, you excluded the impossible outcomes and found out which invariant was not followed in each case. You can also use this approach when looking for an error in your algorithm (or your program). Computer scientists call this debugging. One debugging strategy is to analyze the results (or meaningful intermediate results) to determine where the error occurred. 

## This is Computational Thinking

To figure out which final state was the only possible one, you couldn't just guess. You had to break the challenge down and check each picture against the game's rules step by step. The process of breaking a larger problem into smaller, more manageable pieces to examine them is called decomposition.

To analyze each option, you had to deeply understand the sequence of the game. By tracing the turns, you could deduce that because Beaver Luca always goes first, there must always be at least as many clear water fields as muddy water fields. You also knew that water can only flow into directly adjacent fields. Applying this step-by-step logic to verify an outcome is a core part of algorithmic thinking.

Finally, by excluding the impossible outcomes and figuring out exactly which rule was broken in each incorrect picture, you acted just like a programmer hunting for a glitch. When a computer program produces an unexpected result, computer scientists carefully analyze those outcomes to track down the error. This essential skill of finding and identifying mistakes is known as debugging.

## Informatics Keywords and Websites

--


## Computational Thinking Keywords and Websites

## Informatics Keywords and Websites


## Computational Thinking Keywords and Websites


## Wording and Phrases


## Comments

