---
id: 2026-IE-02a
name: Shopping
title: Shopping
ages:
  6-8: --
  8-10: medium
  10-12: easy
  12-14: --
  14-16: --
  16-19: --
answer_type: multiple choice
categories:
  - algorithms and programming
  - data structures and representations
contributors:
  - Tom Naughton, tomn@cs.nuim.ie, Ireland (author, graphics)
  - Milan Rajkovic, miksam22000@gmail.com, Serbia (contributor)
  - Soong Chee Gi, gi.soongchee@computing.sg, Singapore (contributor)

support_files:
  - graphics/*.svg by Tom Naughton
equivalent_tasks: --
settings:
  default_image_scale: 0.20
---
[bag]:graphics/shopping.svg "bag (250px)"
[receipt]:graphics/receipt-IN.svg "receipt-IN (250px)"
[bread]:graphics/bread.svg "bread (40px)"

## Body

Lalit went shopping.

![bag] ![receipt] 


## Question/Challenge - for the brochures

What is the price of one bread ![bread]?

## Question/Challenge - for the online challenge

What is the price of one bread ![bread]?

## Interactivity instruction - for the online challenge


## Answer Options/Interactivity Description

A) Rs.10
B) Rs.20
C) Rs.30
D) Rs.40

## Answer Explanation

The correct answer is (C).

If we group the list of 11 prices in the receipt in terms of their frequency we get: 10, 10, 10, 10, 40, 40, 40, 30, 30, 20, 50.

The "Rs.10" must be the price of each red apple, because there are four apples and Rs.10 is the only price repeated 4 or more times.
The "Rs. 40" must be the price of each milk carton, because after four Rs.10 are removed, Rs.40 is the only price repeated three or more times.

One might consider that the broccoli and cheese might have a price of Rs.30 each, but because there are two of item ![bread], and Rs.30 is the only remaining repeated price, "Rs.30" must be the price of the ![bread]. Finally, the "Rs.20" and "Rs.50" must be the costs of the broccoli and the cheese (we cannot tell which is which from the information we have been given, but that's OK).

## This is Informatics

This a task which we can apply the following informatics concepts:

This is a __constraint satisfaction__ task where a valid solution must satisfy various conditions (constraints). In this task, we are presented with constraints in graphical form: various numbers of items and prices that must be matched with each other. This task is structured in a way (with different prices for different types of item) that there is a unique solution, and a greedy algorithm without backtracking will arrive at this solution. Specifically, there are two breads in the shopping bag, and there are exactly two copies of just one price "Rs.30".

__Sorting__: Besides the proposed inference method, we can also efficiently match two lists. To do this, we can use sorting.

## This is Computational Thinking

__Abstraction__: This task illustrates the concept of building an abstract model: most of the information in the receipt can be ignored, and only the list of prices of the items need to be retained. The item codes do contain some information, but is equivalent information that is in the prices so they can be ignored. Abstraction is not only a way of thinking, but a computer science method used in all cases to reduce information to data.

__Representation__: This task illustrates the concept of representing data in a way that makes solving the task easier: each item can be represented by its price, and the prices are more easily analysed when represented with some form of clustering.

__Decomposition__: Because different types of items have different prices in this task, this task can be decomposed into several subtasks (one for each item type) that can be solved independently (in any order). One can choose to search only for a price that occurs two times to get the correct answer, but it would be more rigorous to also match off each of the other item types with prices (any order is fine; it does not need to be from most frequent to least frequent) to be sure one's answer is correct.

## Informatics Keywords and Websites

## Computational Thinking Keywords and Websites

## Wording and Phrases

## Comments
