---
id: 2026-CZ-02
name: Fire Sprite
title: Fire Sprite
ages:
  6-8: --
  8-10: --
  10-12: --
  12-14: --
  14-16: hard
  16-19: medium
answer_type: multiple choice
categories:
  - data structures and representations
contributors:
  - Jiří Vaníček, vanicek@pf.jcu.cz, Czech Republic (graphics, author)
  - Heidi Kaarto, heidi.kaarto@utu.fi, Finland (contributor)
  - Daniel Aagrén Geert, danielaageert@gmail.com, Denmark (contributor)

support_files:
  - graphics/*.svg by Jiří Vaníček

equivalent_tasks: --
settings:
  default_image_scale: 0.75
---
[taskbody]:graphics/2026-CZ-02-settings.svg
[soln]:graphics/2026-CZ-02-solution.svg
[explain]:graphics/2026-CZ-02-explanation.svg

## Body

There are a number of islands on the lake, connected by footbridges.

![taskbody]

The fire sprite wants to get from where he is standing, up to the arrow. He wants to visit as many islands as possible. He cannot swim because the water would extinguish him.

However, the footbridges are wooden, and will burn down when the fire sprite walks on them. So the fire sprite cannot use any footbridge twice.


## Question/Challenge - for the brochures

How many islands can the fire sprite visit at most?

## Question/Challenge - for the online challenge

How many islands can the fire sprite visit at most?

## Interactivity instruction - for the online challenge
--

## Answer Options/Interactivity Description

A) 12
B) 13
C) 14
C) 15
D) 20


## Answer Explanation

Correct answer is 13.

Correct solution is shown in the picture below. The optimal path is depicted by a curve and visited islands are highlighted.

![soln]

How to get the correct answer:

We can divide the lake into two parts, the lower (beige dotted rectangle) and the upper (gray dashed rectangle), and solve these parts independently (lower picture). 

![explain]

We must also not forget about one island at the very end of the path. 

The lower part contains enough bridges to pass through all 4 islands, while using each bridge at most once.

The upper part is divided into two branches, the left (light gray) and the right (dark gray). The fire sprite can only pass through one of these branches, because each of them has only one entrance and one exit footbridge. 

In addition, there are groups of islands connected to the main part by only one bridge (small blue rectangles). The fire sprite cannot enter there, because he would not be able to return. We do not need to consider these parts.

We can compare these two branches. The left branch contains 9 islands, but it is not possible to pass through all of them. One island remains unvisited (the one marked with a star). It cannot be used otherwise more than one island would have to be missed. The right branch contains 8 islands and also 1 of them (marked with a star) cannot be used from the same reason.
It is better to go through the left branch.

So choosing the left branch in the upper part leads to 8 islands taken. If we add 4 islands from the bottom and the 1 island at the very top, we get 13 islands.


## This is Informatics

The system of connected islands on a lake in our task can be represented in computer science by a graph, i.e. a set of vertices connected by edges. Various graph tasks involve problems of how to traverse a graph. A typical task for traversing a graph is navigation to some location.

We can record a walk through a graph using a series of vertices and edges that are traversed. Some walks have restrictions, e.g. that each edge can be traversed at most once. 

This task shows how graph theory can be used with robots. An example of such a task is planning a route for a robotic inspection of corridors or pipes without repeated sections and unnecessary returns, testing electrical networks to verify the functionality of all critical connections without repeated loading, a route for a security patrol or drone without returning through sections already traversed, or logistics routes inside warehouses without passing through narrow corridors that have already been traversed.

## This is Computational Thinking

To solve this problem, decomposition is required. A complex graph in the setting can be divided into smaller parts that can be easily solved. For example, the graph has a lower and upper part, which can be solved independently. The upper part of the graph has two branches that cannot be used together, it is possible to go through only one of them.

In addition, some parts of the graph are connected to the main part by only one edge, so it is not possible to enter this part and leave it along another edge. We can ignore these parts of the graph. To solve the problem, some abstraction is required, i.e. finding essential relations.

## Informatics Keywords and Websites


## Computational Thinking Keywords and Websites


## Wording and Phrases

## Comments
