---
id: 2026-BR-04
name: Azul Board Game
title: Azul Board Game
ages:
  6-8: --
  8-10: --
  10-12: --
  12-14: --
  14-16: --
  16-19: hard
answer_type: multiple choice
categories:
  - algorithms and programming
contributors:
  - Vitória Quaresma, vitoria.lima@upmat.com.br, Brazil (graphics, author)

support_files:
  - graphics/*.svg by Vitória Quaresma

equivalent_tasks: --
settings:
  default_image_scale: 0.16
---
[body1]:graphics/2026_BR_04_body_01.svg "body1 (125px)"
[body2]:graphics/2026_BR_04_body_02.svg
[body3]:graphics/2026_BR_04_body_03.svg
[body4]:graphics/2026_BR_04_body_04.svg
[optA]:graphics/2026_BR_04_alt_A.svg "A (35px)"
[optB]:graphics/2026_BR_04_alt_B.svg "B (35px)"
[optC]:graphics/2026_BR_04_alt_C.svg "C (35px)"
[optD]:graphics/2026_BR_04_alt_D.svg "D (35px)"

## Body

The beaver Laís is playing a board game. She has tiles of four different types (A, B, C, and D) and two boards (1 and 2).  The letters on Board 2 indicate the type of tile that can be placed in each position.

![body1]  

![body2]

The game consists of several rounds. In each round, Laís starts by placing tiles on Board 1. She can place as many tiles as she wants on Board 1 as long as each row contains the same type of tile, and each row is either complete or contains no tiles.

Then, for each completed row on Board 1, Laís takes one tile from that row and places it in the same row on Board 2, in the column corresponding to its type. The remaining tiles from that row on Board 1 are discarded.

![body3] This shows a possible result after one round of the game. 

The goal of the game is to complete the largest possible number of rows and columns on Board 2.

After one round of the game, Board 2 was: ![body4]


## Question/Challenge - for the brochures

In the next round, Laís wants to use at most 8 tiles. Which type of tile should she not use if she wants to complete the largest possible number of rows and columns on Board 2? 

## Question/Challenge - for the online challenge

In the next round, Laís wants to use at most 8 tiles. Which type of tile should she not use if she wants to complete the largest possible number of rows and columns on Board 2? 

## Interactivity instruction - for the online challenge
--

## Answer Options/Interactivity Description

:-- | :-- | :-- | :-- | 
A) ![optA] | B) ![optB] | C) ![optC] | D) ![optD]


## Answer Explanation




## This is Informatics



## This is Computational Thinking



## Informatics Keywords and Websites


## Computational Thinking Keywords and Websites


## Wording and Phrases

## Comments
