---
id: 2026-SK-02
name: Gifts for Grandchildren
title: Gifts for Grandchildren
ages:
  6-8: --
  8-10: --
  10-12: --
  12-14: hard
  14-16: medium
  16-19: easy
answer_type: multiple choice
categories:
  - algorithms and programming
  - data structures and representations
contributors:
  - Kris Coolsaet, kris.coolsaet@ugent.be, Belgium (contributor)
  - Monika Tomcsányiová, monika.tomcsanyiova@fmph.uniba.sk, Slovakia (author)
  - Mária Čujdíková, maria.cujdikova@fmph.uniba.sk, Slovakia (author, graphics)

support_files:
  - graphics/*.svg by Mária Čujdíková

equivalent_tasks: --
settings:
  default_image_scale: 0.9
---
[body]:graphics/2026-SK-02_graph.svg 
[redh]:graphics/2026-SK-02_red_house.svg "red (60px)"
[yellowh]:graphics/2026-SK-02_yellow_house.svg "yellow (60px)"
[greenh]:graphics/2026-SK-02_green_house.svg "green (60px)"
[grwyh]:graphics/2026-SK-02_gray_house.svg "grey (60px)"
[explain]:graphics/2026-SK-02_one_solution.svg
[explain1]:graphics/2026-SK-02_explain1.svg
[explain2]:graphics/2026-SK-02_explain2.svg
[final]:graphics/2026-SK-02_final.svg


## Body

![body]

The picture above shows a map of the houses and roads in the village. Each road (black line) between two houses is exactly 1 km long.

Grandma lives in the big (red) house ![redh], and her grandchildren in the smaller (yellow) houses ![yellowh] . The green houses ![greenh] are toy stores and the grey houses ![greyh] are where other people live.

Grandma wants to buy gifts at (exactly) one of the toy stores and deliver them to her grandchildren in all three yellow houses. 

## Question/Challenge - for the brochures

What is the minimum distance Grandma needs to travel (in km) that takes her from her house to one of the shops, then to each of the three houses of her grandchildren (to deliver the toys) and then back again to her house?

## Question/Challenge - for the online challenge

What is the minimum distance Grandma needs to travel (in km) that takes her from her house to one of the shops, then to each of the three houses of her grandchildren (to deliver the toys) and then back again to her house?

## Interactivity instruction - for the online challenge
--

## Answer Options/Interactivity Description

A) 9 km
B) 10 km
C) 11 km
D) 12 km

## Answer Explanation

The correct answer is 11 km. One example of how she can travel is shown in the picture below (but there are other solutions that accomplish the same distance).

![explain]

To see that you cannot get the task done by travelling less than 11 km, we can proceed as follows;

![explain1]

- Let’s first concentrate on visiting the 3 houses of the grandchildren (A, B and C in the picture on the left). The distance between B and C is 3 km (there are two paths you can use), between A and B is 3 km, and between A and C 4 km.

![explain2]

It is fairly easy to see that you can visit all three houses using only 6 km, starting at A or C and then you will end up at C or A. If you want to end up at B, you need 7 km. We indicated this in the picture below

- After visiting the three houses, you need to return home. If you ended up at B, you need only 1 more kilometer. If you ended up at A or C, you need at least 2 more km. In any case, that means that you need at least 8 km to visit all grandchildren and return back to Grandma’s house.

![final]

- Now let’s tackle the problem from the other side. How many kilometers do you need to go from Grandma’s house to one of the shops and then to one of the grandchildren’s houses?

This depends on the shop chosen. If you choose shop F (see picture on the right), you need 3 km to end up at A. If you choose shops D or E, you need 4 km to end up at C.

So you need at least 3 km for the first part of the journey.

Adding the 8 km you need for the second part, you  need a total journey of at least 11 km!



## This is Informatics

This task is a good example of how to translate an everyday situation into the language of computer science and solve it using well-known models in computer science. From the point of view of computer science, it is not just about the shortest path between two points, but about planning a route with multiple objectives and constraints that must be satisfied in the correct order. Such problems belong to optimization on graphs with constraints.

Graphs are computer scientist’s way to represent connections between objects – here roads between houses. They are used to model many real life problems, like finding the shortest path between two places on a map.

This task is a little more involved: you cannot simply look for the shortest path that contains Grandma’s house, one shop and the three houses of the grandchildren, because the order in which you visit the places on the map, is very important here: you have to visit a shop first. So, some times computer scientists need to adapt well-known algorithms (find the shortest route) to the specific problem at hand.

## This is Computational Thinking

Decomposition - In this task, we made solving the problem easier by splitting it into separate problems: first to find the shortest route through the three grandchildren’s houses, then adding the fact that grandma needs to get home, and only after that we considered the first part of the journey. Dividing the problem in this way made it easier to solve it correctly.

Algorithmic thinking - The solver has to design a strategy for solving the route-planning problem and then apply it. This may involve comparing possible toy shops, identifying parts of the map that force detours, keeping track of whether the gifts have already been bought, and checking which yellow houses have already been visited.

Evaluation – The solver compares several possible routes and checks which of them satisfies all conditions with the smallest number of travelled roads. It is not enough to find one valid route; the solver must also evaluate whether another route could be shorter. This includes rejecting routes that require unnecessary backtracking.

## Informatics Keywords and Websites


## Computational Thinking Keywords and Websites


## Wording and Phrases

## Comments
