---
id: 2026-MX-04
name: Alien Roommates
title: Alien Roommates
ages:
  6-8: --
  8-10: --
  10-12: hard
  12-14: medium
  14-16: easy
  16-19: --
answer_type: multiple choice
categories:
  - algorithms and programming
  - data structures and representations
contributors:
  - Cesar Cepeda, cesar@cgnix.com, Mexico (author)
  - Maria Cepeda, marimar@aurovirtual.com, Mexico (author, graphics)
  - Duan Heather, duanmenghua@seedasdan.org, Hong Kong (contributor)
  - DoYong Kim, emelmuse@gmail.com, South Korea (contributor)

support_files:
  - graphics/*.svg by Maria Cepeda

equivalent_tasks: --
settings:
  default_image_scale: 0.50
---
[A]:graphics/A_v2.svg "alienA (100px)"
[B]:graphics/B_v2.svg "alienB (100px)"
[C]:graphics/C_v2.svg "alienC (100px)"
[D]:graphics/D_v2.svg "alienD (100px)"
[E]:graphics/E_v2.svg "alienE (100px)"
[F]:graphics/F_v2.svg "alienF (100px)"
[G]:graphics/G_v2.svg "alienG (100px)"
[H]:graphics/H_v2.svg "alienH (100px)"
[decision]:graphics/decision_tree_example.svg

## Body

8 different alien species are traveling together on a spaceship. To avoid conflicts, the ship's computer must group them into 4 double rooms. The 4 pairs that get along well are already assigned to their specific rooms (Room #1 to #4).

:---: | :---: | :---: | :---:
Room 1 | Room 2 | Room 3 | Room 4
![A] | ![C] | ![E] | ![G]
![B] | ![D] | ![F] | ![H]

To automate the boarding process, the aliens pass through a sequence of three automated gates. Each gate checks one visible physical feature (Arms, Eyes, Horns, Legs, Teeth, Wings). Depending on the value of the feature, the gate leading to their respective room is opened. 

Gate  | Feature | Condition | If True                   | If False
:---- | :------ | :-------- | :------------------------ | :----------------------
**1** | Arms    | > 1       | Send aliens towards Room #3, #4 | Send aliens towards Room #1, #2

For example, Gate 1 sends aliens with 2 or more arms towards Rooms #3 and #4, and aliens with 0 or 1 arm towards Rooms #1 and #2.


## Question/Challenge - for the brochures

Configure the three automated gates so that the aliens end up exactly in their assigned rooms. Multiple gates may check for same feature.

| Gate | Feature | Condition | If True | If False |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :---
| **1** | [?] | > # | Send to Gate 2 | Send to Gate 3 |
| **2** | [?] | > # | Send to Room #4 | Send to Room #3 |
| **3** | [?] | > # | Send to Room #2 | Send to Room #1 |

where ? is a feature and # is a number.

## Question/Challenge - for the online challenge

Configure the three automated gates so that the aliens end up exactly in their assigned rooms. Multiple gates may check for same feature.

| Gate | Feature | Condition | If True | If False |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :---
| **1** | [?] | > # | Send to Gate 3 | Send to Gate 2 |
| **2** | [?] | > # | Send to Room #2 | Send to Room #1 |
| **3** | [?] | > # | Send to Room #4 | Send to Room #3 |

where ? is a feature and # is a number.

## Interactivity instruction - for the online challenge
--

## Answer Options/Interactivity Description

A) Gate 1: [Arms] > 2, Gate 2: [Teeth] > 2, Gate 3: [Teeth] > 1
B) Gate 1: [Arms] > 2, Gate 2: [Teeth] > 0, Gate 3: [Horns] > 1
C) Gate 1: [Arms] > 2, Gate 2: [Teeth] > 2, Gate 3: [Horns] > 1
D) Gate 1: [Arms] > 1, Gate 2: [Teeth] > 2, Gate 3: [Horns] > 2
E) Gate 1: [Eyes] > 2, Gate 2: [Teeth] > 2, Gate 3: [Horns] > 1
E) Gate 1: [Legs] > 3, Gate 2: [Teeth] > 2, Gate 3: [Horns] > 1


## Answer Explanation

Option C is correct:

Gate 1 opens the green path for aliens with more than 2 arms (Rooms #3 and #4) and the red path for those with 2 or fewer arms (Rooms #1 and #2).

Gate 2 opens the green path for aliens with more than 2 teeth (Room #2) and the red path for those with fewer teeth (Room #1).

Gate 3 opens the green path for aliens with more than 1 horn (Room #4) and the red path for those with 0–1 horn (Room #3).


## This is Informatics

This task demonstrates how a Decision Trees classify data. Decisions trees are often used in machine learning systems, a popular artificial intelligence technique used when many data points are available.

When computers learn to classify things—like deciding if an email is "Spam" or "Important"—they can build a tree of questions. At each step, an algorithm searches for the characteristic that best divides the data into distinct groups. In the task the distinction is very precise and deterministic, machine learning system often use probabilistic distinctions, where something can be considered different things with different associated probabilities (90% probable it is spam… but still 10% probable is an important message).

The task uses a Decision Threshold. When analyzing real data (like a person's age or weight), an algorithm looks for a numerical cutoff point. Instead of asking "Does it have weight?", it asks: "Is the weight GREATER THAN 500 grams?". That number is the threshold.

While modern Artificial Intelligence often uses highly complex models like Neural Networks, Decision Trees remain extremely valuable because their step-by-step logic is transparent and easy for humans to understand. In this task, you acted as the "training algorithm", finding the optimal features and thresholds to solve the problem!

## This is Computational Thinking

To solve this task, a systematic approach is needed to classify the aliens step by step. The overall problem is broken down into smaller parts by repeatedly splitting the group into subgroups. This demonstrates decomposition, as the task is solved through a sequence of simpler decisions.

The task requires abstraction, in which each alien is considered only through relevant features (number of eyes, arms, etc.), ignoring all other visual details.
A key strategy involves pattern recognition: by examining the given pairs, you look for features that distinguish one pair from others and help divide the aliens into meaningful groups.

The solution relies on algorithmic thinking and logical reasoning: you follow a structured process (select a feature, choose a threshold, split the group) knowing that early decisions strictly affect all later outcomes.

## Informatics Keywords and Websites


## Computational Thinking Keywords and Websites


## Wording and Phrases

## Comments
