---
id: 2026-CZ-05
name: Toy Crane
title: Toy Crane
ages:
  6-8: --
  8-10: medium
  10-12: easy
  12-14: --
  14-16: --
  16-19: --
answer_type: multiple choice
categories:
  - data structures and representations
contributors:
  - Jiří Vaníček, vanicek@jcu.cz, Czech Republic (author)
  - Belén Palop, b.palop@ucm.es, Spain (contributor)
  - Valentina Dagiene, valentina.dagiene@mif.vu.lt, Lithuania (contributor)
  - Susanne Thut, susanne.thut@informatik-biber.ch, Switzerland (graphics)

support_files:
  - graphics/*.svg by Susanne Thut
equivalent_tasks: --
settings:
  default_image_scale: 0.20
---
[sequence]:graphics/2026-CZ-05_sequence.svg
[crane]:graphics/2026-CZ-05_crane.svg "crane (300px)"
[up]:graphics/2026-CZ-05_up.svg "up (35px)"
[down]:graphics/2026-CZ-05_down.svg "down (35px)"
[explain]:graphics/2026-CZ-05_explanation.svg

## Body

![crane] 

This toy crane has two buttons that move the box either up or down. At the start of the day, the box is positioned at the bottom. Amit randomly pressed the buttons:

![sequence]

## Question/Challenge - for the brochures

How many times did the box move up?

## Question/Challenge - for the online challenge

How many times did the box move up?

## Interactivity instruction - for the online challenge
--

## Answer Options/Interactivity Description

A) 4
B) 5
C) 8
D) 10


## Answer Explanation

The correct answer is (B).

The box moved up a total of five times during the day.

The box is initially down, hence the first time the button ![up] is pressed, the box moves up. 

From then on, if someone presses that button when the box is already up, the box does not move. The box will move up whenever the sequence shows this pattern:![down]![up]

Its occurrences are shown here:

![explain]

If you chose the number 4, you probably counted the pattern, but forgot to include the first move.

If you chose the number 8, you probably counted how many times someone pressed ![up] button, even if the box did not move.

If you chose the number 10, you probably counted how many times the box moved up but also when it moved down.


## This is Informatics

This task is about processing encoded information. The sequence of arrows ↓ (down) and ↑ (up) is a compact code describing button presses, and it can be analysed directly to obtain new information: how many times the crane was raised.

The whole sequence does not need to be decoded into a complete story of the day. Instead, it is enough to look for meaningful changes in the code. In this case, a raising event happens when the state changes from ↓ to ↑. This illustrates an important informatics idea: encoded data can often be processed using simple rules to detect events, count occurrences, or extract useful information without reconstructing every detail of the original situation.

## This is Computational Thinking

Pattern recognition is necessary to find the parts of the sequence that mean to move the box up or down to count the appearances of the pattern.

## Informatics Keywords and Websites
--


## Computational Thinking Keywords and Websites


## Wording and Phrases

## Comments
