---
id: 2026-SK-04
name: Breakfast
title: Breakfast
ages:
  6-8: --
  8-10: easy
  10-12: --
  12-14: --
  14-16: --
  16-19: --
answer_type: multiple choice
categories:
  - data structures and representations
contributors:
  - Karolína Miková, karolina.mikova@fmph.uniba.sk, Slovakia (author)
  - Monika Tomcsányiová, monika.tomcsanyiova@fmph.uniba.sk, Slovakia (contributor)
  - Marta Burzanska, quintria@mat.umk.pl, Poland (contributor)
  - Belen Palop, b.palop@ucm.es, Spain (contributor)
  - Valentina Dagienė, valentina.dagiene@mif.vu.lt, Lithuania (contributor)
  - Vaidotas Kinčius, vaidotas.kincius@gmail.com, Lithuania (graphics)
support_files:
  - graphics/*.svg by Vaidotas Kinčius

equivalent_tasks: --
settings:
  default_image_scale: 0.12
---
[table]:graphics/2026-SK-04.svg


## Body

These are two breakfast tables.

Marko walked to get things as the red path shows.

![table]

## Question/Challenge - for the brochures

Which of the following statements is incorrect?

## Question/Challenge - for the online challenge

Which of the following statements is incorrect?

## Interactivity instruction - for the online challenge
--

## Answer Options/Interactivity Description

A) Marko got milk last.
B) After the bowl, Marko got cereal.
C) Marko did not get cheese.
D) First, Marko got a bowl.


## Answer Explanation

Correct answer is D) First, Marko got a bowl.

Marko came into the room from the right side of the picture.

He got bananas, a bowl, cereal and milk, in this exact order.

A) is true (milk was last)
B) is true (arrow points from bowls to cereal)
C) is true (no arrow to cheese)
D) is false (first item was a banana)


## This is Informatics

In this task, information is shown using a picture and a red path with arrows. The picture represents a real-life situation, and the red path shows the order of actions. To solve the task, you need to carefully follow the path and arrange the steps in the correct order.

In Informatics, putting actions in the right sequence is very important. Computers and programs must follow instructions step by step to work correctly. This task helps practice understanding information, following sequences, and organizing actions in the correct order.

## This is Computational Thinking

This task focuses on understanding and organizing sequences of actions. To solve it, the learner must identify the important information in the picture and break the problem into smaller, manageable parts (decomposition). Then, they use algorithmic thinking to create a clear step-by-step sequence of actions.

After identifying the correct sequence, the learner uses logical reasoning to compare it with the given statements to decide whether each one is true or false. Finally, by checking all four statements against the identified steps, the learner determines the correct answer.

## Informatics Keywords and Websites

## Computational Thinking Keywords and Websites

## Wording and Phrases

## Comments
