---
id: 2026-MT-01
name: What's for Lunch
title: What's for Lunch
ages:
  6-8: --
  8-10: easy
  10-12: --
  12-14: --
  14-16: --
  16-19: --
answer_type: multiple choice with images
categories:
  - algorithms and programming
contributors:
  - Leonard Busuttil, leonard.busuttil@um.edu.mt, Malta (author, graphics)
  - Yeh Hong-Jin, hjyeh@ajou.ac.kr, South Korea (contributor)
  - Stratis Nikolaos, nstratis@hotmil.com, Cyprus (contributor)
  - Lukas Lehner, lukas.lehner@tuwien.ac.at, Austria (contributor)
support_files:
  - graphics/*.svg by Leonard Busuttil

equivalent_tasks: --
settings:
  default_image_scale: 0.18
---
[pasta]:graphics/pasta_plate.svg
[rice]:graphics/rice_plate.svg
[sandwich]:graphics/sandwich.svg
[soup]:graphics/soup_bowl.svg


## Body

Bebrasville school serves lunch every day. The kitchen follows a rotating menu that repeats every 4 days in the same order:

The menu started on day 1 with pasta and continued with rice, soup and sandwich. On day 5 they serve pasta again and so on.

| Day 1 | Day 2 | Day 3 | Day 4 |
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
|![pasta] | ![rice] | ![soup] | ![sandwich] |
| pasta | rice | soup | sandwich |

## Question/Challenge - for the brochures

Which dish will be served on day 11?

## Question/Challenge - for the online challenge

Which dish will be served on day 11?

## Interactivity instruction - for the online challenge
--

## Answer Options/Interactivity Description

| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
|![pasta] | ![rice] | ![soup] | ![sandwich]
| A)  | B) | C) | D) |


## Answer Explanation

The correct answer is soup.

Because the menu repeats every 4 days, we can group the school days into cycles:

| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Day 1 | Day 2 | Day 3 | Day 4 | Day 5 | Day 6 | 
|![pasta] | ![rice] | ![soup] | ![sandwich] | ![pasta] | ![rice] |
| Day 7 | Day 8 | Day 9 | Day 10 | Day 11 | |
 ![soup] | ![sandwich] |![pasta] | ![rice] | ![soup] | |


## This is Informatics

A sequence is a collection of objects that come in a specified order, which in this case are the four dishes.

In computing, repetition is a technique that marks out of a block of statements within a computer program for a defined number of repetitions. In this case the dishes are the statements and they are repeated in the same order until day 11.

## This is Computational Thinking

Abstraction: Once we know the cycle length is 4, the actual day number (11) stops being important. What matters is only its position within the cycle: its remainder when divided by 4. Focusing on what is relevant and ignoring everything else is abstraction.

Algorithmic thinking: The menu cycle is itself a simple algorithm, a fixed sequence of steps that repeats. Following it mechanically, day by day, and predicting its output is algorithmic thinking.

## Informatics Keywords and Websites


## Computational Thinking Keywords and Websites


## Wording and Phrases

## Comments
