---
id: 2026-EC-01
name: Amelia's Message
title: Amelia's Message
ages:
  6-8: --
  8-10: medium
  10-12: easy
  12-14: --
  14-16: --
  16-19: --
answer_type: multiple choice with images
categories:
  - algorithms and programming
contributors:
  - Omar Paladines, omarpaladines1995@gmail.com, Ecuador (author, graphics)
  - Pedro Suarez, pedroasuarez2001+OIEC@gmail.com, Ecuador (author, graphics)
  - Alex Parry, alex.parry@rasbperrypi.org, United Kingdom (contributor, graphics)
  - Lukas Lehner, lukas.lehner@tuwien.ac.at, Austria (contributor)


support_files:
  - graphics/*.svg by Omar Paladines, Alex Parry, Pedro Suarez

equivalent_tasks: --
settings:
  default_image_scale: 0.40
---
[heart]:graphics/STICKERS-22.svg
[star]:graphics/STICKERS-23.svg
[sun]:graphics/STICKERS-24.svg
[dog]:graphics/STICKERS-19.svg
[cat]:graphics/STICKERS-20.svg
[rabbit]:graphics/STICKERS-21.svg
[ansA]:graphics/STICKERS-14.svg "ansA (300px)"
[ansAcor]:graphics/STICKERS-14-corrected.svg
[ansB]:graphics/STICKERS-15.svg "ansB (300px)"
[ansC]:graphics/STICKERS-16.svg "ansC (300px)"
[ansCcor]:graphics/STICKERS-16-corrected.svg
[ansD]:graphics/STICKERS-18.svg "ansD (300px)"
[ansDcor]:graphics/STICKERS-18-corrected.svg



## Body

Amelia sends messages to her friends using animal stickers ![cat]  ![dog]  ![rabbit].

At the end of each message, Amelia adds 1 or more special stickers as follows:

- If the message contains exactly two animals, she adds a star: ![star]
- If the message contains exactly three animals, Amelia adds a heart: ![heart]
- If all the animals in the message are all different from each other, Amelia adds a sun: ![sun]

## Question/Challenge - for the brochures

Which of the following messages could Amelia have sent??

## Question/Challenge - for the online challenge

Which of the following messages could Amelia have sent??

## Interactivity instruction - for the online challenge
--

## Answer Options/Interactivity Description

A) ![ansA]
B) ![ansB]
C) ![ansC]  
D) ![ansD]


## Answer Explanation

The correct answer is the second message.

The second message has exactly three animal stickers, so the rule about when to add a heart applies but the rule about when to add a star does not. Also, the animal stickers are not all different from each other, so the rule about when to add a sun does not apply. 

All the other options are incorrect.

The first message has exactly two animal stickers, so the rule about when to add a star applies but the rule about when to add a heart does not. Also, the animal stickers are different from each other, so the rule about when to add a sun applies. If Amelia had sent the first message, it should look like this:

![ansAcor]

The third message has exactly two animal stickers, so the rule about when to add a star applies but the rule about when to add a heart does not. Also, the animal stickers are different from each other, so the rule about when to add a sun applies. If Amelia had sent the third message, it should look like this:

![ansCcor]

The fourth message has exactly three animal stickers, so the rule about when to add a heart applies but the rule about when to add a star does not. Also, the animal stickers are different from each other, so the rule about when to add a sun applies. If Amelia had sent the fourth message, it should look like this:

![ansDcor]

## This is Informatics

This task’s solution follows a simple algorithm to determine which messages were sent by Amelia, which consisted of successively testing each of Amelia’s rules against the set of messages and collecting the set of messages that failed any of the rules. This implementation is an example of the use of if-then conditional statements in programming.

More generally, this task is an example of a data validation process, in which some inputs are analyzed to ensure that they conform to some pre-existing rules. In particular, the “stickers” attached to each input resemble the concept of a checksum used to verify the messages integrity.

## This is Computational Thinking

Students must use logical reasoning to apply each rule to the messages and decide which conditions have been met and therefore what stickers should be added to the end of the message.

By following Amelia’s rules, students must then evaluate each option based on whether the correct stickers have been added to the end of the message or not.

## Informatics Keywords and Websites


## Computational Thinking Keywords and Websites


## Wording and Phrases

## Comments
