---
id: 2026-UK-04
name: Stop the Water
title: Stop the Water
ages:
  6-8: --
  8-10: easy
  10-12: --
  12-14: --
  14-16: --
  16-19: --
answer_type: multiple choice
categories:
  - algorithms and programming
  - data structures and representations
contributors:
  - Harriet Page, harriet.page@raspberrypi.org, United Kingdom (author)
  - Marvin G. Hall, mghall@hallsoflearning.com, Jamaica (contributor, graphics)
  - Seth Ayim, sokaogoe@gmail.com, Ghana (contributor)
  - Alex Parry, alex.parry@raspberrypi.org, United Kingdom (contributor, graphics)
  - Viadotas Kincius, vaidotas.kincius@gmail.com, Lithuania (graphics)

support_files:
  - graphics/*.svg by Alex Parry, Marvin G. Hall, Viadotas Kincius

equivalent_tasks: --
settings:
  default_image_scale: 0.20
---
[sequence]:graphics/2026-UK-04-task.svg
[ansA]:graphics/2026-UK-04-task-answer-ac.svg
[ansB]:graphics/2026-UK-04-task-answer-cf.svg
[ansC]:graphics/2026-UK-04-task-answer-bcf.svg
[ansD]:graphics/2026-UK-04-task-answer-bc.svg

## Body

Bunty is playing with pipes and pouring water into them. Along the pipes, there are gates labelled A to I that can be opened and closed to control the flow of water. But gate A is broken and cannot be closed.

![sequence]

## Question/Challenge - for the brochures

Which gates should be closed to prevent water from reaching gate E, using the fewest possible gates?

## Question/Challenge - for the online challenge

Which gates should be closed to prevent water from reaching gate E, using the fewest possible gates?

## Interactivity instruction - for the online challenge
--

## Answer Options/Interactivity Description

A) Gates A and C
B) Gates C and F
C) Gates B, C and F
D) Gates B and C


## Answer Explanation

The correct answer is (D).

![ansD]

Two paths lead the water to Gate E: A -> B -> E and C -> E. Since Gate A is broken, then closing B and C blocks the path to E using the least amount of gates.

Answer A is incorrect

![ansA]

Closing A and C would block both paths to E but the question states that gate A is broken.

Answer B is incorrect

![ansB]

Closing C blocks one path, but water still reaches E by traveling A -> B -> E.

Answer C is incorrect

![ansC]

Closing B and C does block both paths to E, but F is unnecessary.


## This is Informatics

In this task, you explored how water flows between connected places. The connected pipes form a network. Computers use networks to represent many systems in real life, like how cars travel on roads, how water gets to your house and how information travels across the internet. By closing gates, you changed the paths the water could take. This is similar to how computers systems control how information travels across networks, for example, to stop viruses from spreading or to guide messages to the right person.

## This is Computational Thinking

Decomposition – this is used when you breakdown the network of pipes into individual paths and consider how each gate's open/close state affects the flow of water. 

Abstraction – the story context is simplified into a model of connected paths and control points. This requires abstraction to focus only on which pipes connect, the direction of the water flow and the positions of the gates while ignoring the playful setting. 

Logical reasoning – this is used to predict various consequences. For example, if a particular gate is closed, which paths to gate E remain open? Or what is the smallest number of closures that adheres to the constraint that gate A is broken and must stay open?

## Informatics Keywords and Websites


## Computational Thinking Keywords and Websites


## Wording and Phrases

## Comments
