---
id: 2026-MX-02b
name: Free Taco Order
title: Free Taco Order
ages:
  6-8: --
  8-10: --
  10-12: --
  12-14: --
  14-16: --
  16-19: hard
answer_type: multiple choice
categories:
  - algorithms and programming
contributors:
  - Maria Cepeda, marimar@aurovirtual.com, Mexico (author)
  - Cesar Cepeda, contributor, cesar@cgnix.com, Mexico (author)
  - Emma Sotomayor, emmasoce@gmail.com, Mexico (contributor)
  - Duan Heather, editor, duanmenghua@seedasdan.org, Hong Kong (contributor)
  - DoYong Kim, editor, emelmuse@gmail.com, South Korea (contributor)


support_files:
  - none

equivalent_tasks: --
settings:
  default_image_scale: 1
---



## Body

Tacos are a unique part of Mexican culture: varied, delicious, and prepared fast!

A Taquería (food truck) promises: 

"If your group order takes more than 15 minutes, the meal is FREE!"

This applies to orders of up to 8 tacos (any combination you want).

You and your friends want a free meal. The waiters assign the tacos to the three cooks one by one, in the exact order you ask for them. They do it following strictly these rules:
- Rule 1 (Fastest Cook): Give the new taco to the cook who prepares it the fastest.
- Rule 2 (Overload Protection): If that cook already has 10 minutes or more of work waiting, give the taco to next fastest cook instead.
- Rule 3 (Tie-Breaker): If cooks tie in speed, give it to the cook with the least amount of work. If there is still a tie, assign it in the next order; Ana, Beto, Carlos.
- Rule 4 (System Overload): If ALL cooks are overloaded (>= 10 mins), ignore Rule 2 and give the taco to the fastest cook.

Each cook has different speeds for each taco type. 

See the table below of Preparation times in minutes:

:------ | :-- | :--- | :-----
Taco    | Ana | Beto | Carlos
Paneer  | 3   | 5    | 5
Chicken | 5   | 3    | 5
Veggie  | 2   | 11   | 11
       
Cooks prepare one taco at a time in the assigned order.

The total time stops when the last taco is finished. 

## Question/Challenge - for the brochures

Which of the following order sequences will successfully trick the Taquería rules and take more than 15 minutes?

## Question/Challenge - for the online challenge

Which of the following order sequences will successfully trick the Taquería rules and take more than 15 minutes?

## Interactivity instruction - for the online challenge
--

## Answer Options/Interactivity Description

A) 8 Veggie Tacos.
B) 8 Paneer Tacos.
C) 4 Paneer, 2 Chicken, and 2 Veggie Tacos.
D) 4 Chicken and 4 Veggie Tacos.
E) It is not possible

## Answer Explanation

Option C is one correct answer: 

4 Paneer, 2 Chicken, and 2 Veggie Tacos.

Let's trace Option C step-by-step as one successful way to hack the system:
1. 4 Paneer Tacos: Go to Ana (Fastest). She now has 4×3=12 minutes of work. (Ana is now overloaded ≥10!)
2. 2 Chicken Tacos: Go to Beto (Fastest). He has 2×3=6 minutes of work.
3. 1st Veggie Taco: The fastest is Ana, but she is overloaded. The waiter gives it to Carlos (least work between Beto and Carlos). Carlos takes 11 mins. (Carlos is now overloaded ≥10!)
4. 2nd Veggie Taco: Ana is overloaded. Carlos is overloaded. The waiter gives it to Beto. Beto had 6 minutes of work, plus 11 for the Veggie... Beto's total time is 17 minutes!

The Taquería Rules failed, and you win free food!

For other options: 

Option A: 8 Veggies will end up with 5 V while Ana is first overloaded, and 1 V for Beto, 1V for Carlos, and then the last V goes to Ana again. Max time: 12mins

Option B: 8 Paneer will end up with 4 P while Ana is first overloaded, and 2P for Beto, 2P for Carlos. Max time: 12mins

Option D: 4 Chicken will first go to Beto, Beto is overloaded, and 4 Veggies will go to Ana. Max time: 12 mins 

Option E: Since option C is a possible solution thus E is not correct. 

## This is Informatics

This task is about Adversarial Testing and Algorithm Tracing.

In computer science, a rigid set of instructions (like the Taquería rules) is called a Greedy Algorithm. It seems smart because it tries to use the fastest people and prevent them from getting too much work. However, rigid algorithms can be exploited.

Cybersecurity experts and software testers use "Adversarial Thinking": they actively look for "Edge Cases" or “Worst Case Scenarios”—specific, tricky inputs (like this specific combination of tacos) that cause a system to fail or crash.

A better Load Balancing algorithm wouldn't just look at a rigid 10-minute limit. It would adapt dynamically to prevent disasters, like giving an 11-minute Veggie taco to a cook who is already busy, just because the specialist was slightly over the limit.

## This is Computational Thinking

To solve this task, you used Algorithm Tracing and Evaluation. Instead of guessing randomly, you had to follow a strict set of rules step-by-step (tracing) to see how the system behaves under different inputs. By applying Logical Reasoning, you evaluated how to intentionally overload specific cooks to expose the flaw in the algorithm's logic, simulating a "worst-case scenario."  

## Informatics Keywords and Websites


## Computational Thinking Keywords and Websites


## Wording and Phrases

## Comments
